Donald John Trump (/born June 14, 1946) is an American businessman and the 36th President-elect of 
the United States. In June 2015, Trump announced his candidacy for president as a Republican and quickly 
emerged as the front-runner for his party's nomination. His rivals suspended their campaigns in May 2016, 
and in July he was formally nominated at the party convention. Trump won the general election on November 8, 
2016, by earning more Electoral College votes than Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, who won the popular 
vote. As of November 2016 Trump's presidential transition is underway and he is scheduled to be inaugurated 
on January 20, 2017. At 70 years old, he will be the oldest person ever to assume the presidency.

Trump was born and raised in New York City and received a bachelor's degree in economics from the Wharton 
School in 1968. In 1971 he took control of his family's real estate and construction firm, Elizabeth 
Trump & Son, and renamed it The Trump Organization. He later expanded the business with other products and 
activities. Trump has built office towers, hotels, casinos, golf courses, and other Trump-branded 
facilities worldwide. He owned the Miss USA pageants from 1996 to 2015, and has made cameo appearances 
in films and television series. From 2004 to 2015, Trump hosted and co-produced The Apprentice, a reality 
television series on NBC. He sought the Reform Party's presidential nomination in 2000, but withdrew before 
voting began. As of 2016, he was listed by Forbes as the 336th wealthiest person in the world, and 156th 
in the United States, with a net worth of $4.5 billion.[3]

Trump's 2016 presidential campaign received unprecedented media coverage and international attention. 
Many of his statements in interviews, on Twitter, and at campaign rallies have been controversial or false. 
Several rallies during the primaries were accompanied by protests. Trump's platform includes renegotiation 
of U.S.?China trade deals, opposition to particular trade agreements such as NAFTA and the Trans-Pacific 
Partnership, pursuit of energy independence using all energy sources with opposition to climate change 
regulations such as the Clean Power Plan and the Paris Agreement, stronger enforcement of immigration laws 
together with building a wall along the Mexico?U.S. border, reform of veterans' care, repeal and 
replacement of Obamacare, abolition of Common Core education standards, investments in the country's 
infrastructure and a simplified tax code with lower rates. Following the November 2015 Paris attacks, 
Trump called for a temporary ban on Muslim immigration, which he later changed to a policy of "extreme 
vetting" from certain countries.[5]